This file describes the installation procedure of Sablotron. To know
more on Sablotron, please read the README file in the same directory 
as this file.


1. Intro
2. Prerequesties
3. Building
4. Environment
5. More info


1. Intro
========================================

XML::Sablotron is a simple Perl package, which encapsulates the C API
of Sablotron XSLT processor. The only important fact is, that this
package uses the dynamic linking of Sablotron.

If you need use this module on platforms, which do not allow dynamic
linking, please contact us.

2. Prerequesties
========================================

You need the Sablotron package to be correctly installed on you machine. 
If you don't have it, download it from http://www.gingerall.com.

Unix: 
----- 

If you've installed Sablotron package in the standard way, all should
be OK with no additional tweaking. If you've installed Sablotron in
some non-system directory, you may need

a) run perl Makefile.PL with -d switch, which allows to specify
directory, where Sablotron is installed (supposes lib and include
subdirs)

b) set LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to point to directory
containing library files.

NT:
---

a) Check, if Sablotron and Expat includes and *.lib files are placed
in directories pointed by LIB and INCLUDE variables. Otherwise you have to use -d switch for 'perl Makefile.PL' (see Unix comment above).

b) Check, if Sablotron dll files are placed in directories listed in
PATH environment variable.

3. Building
========================================

Here is what you need:
	a Linux box (tested on RH 6.1) with GNU C++ compiler
  or
	a NT box (testes on Win NT 4.0) with VC++ 4.2 (and later)

If you need any other port, please contact us.

Unpack the tar-ball file into a directory of your choice.

Change into the XML-Sablotron* directory and type

  perl Makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install (if you want; may require the root privileges)

Running a Win32 box you have to type:

  perl Makefile.PL
  nmake
  nmake test
  nmake install (if you want)

!! NT problem !!
The Perl Makemaker finds Sablotron libraries only in some special
locations. You can make the Makefile.PL to use files in any other 
directory using the `-d' switch.

The first line of previous example may look like this:
perl Makefile.PL -d c:\great-tools\Sablot-x.xx

If the test process fails, there may be something wrong with your 
environment. Please, check the following "Environment" section.

If you see any errors, you may try to fix it or just contact us.
Any help or feedback from users is highly appreciated.

------------------------------------------------------------
JS EXTENSIONS NOTE:

If you have installed Sablotron with JS extensions support,
XML::Sablotron must link JavaScript shared library. To link a JS 
library named libjs.so, issue:

  perl Makefile.PL JSLIBPATH=<path_to_jslib.so>

To link a library with a different name, type:

  perl Makefile.PL JSLIBNAME=<lib_name> JSLIBPATH=<path_to_jslib.so>
------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------
Debugger and readline

The Sablotron processor supports a command-line debugging. By default
it doesn't require any special libraries, but it may be
compiled/linked with a GNU readline support. in such a case you need
to link a readline library to the perl extension too.

To do it, add LIBS='-lreadline -lncurses' to Makefile.PL (this sample
is valid for most Linuxes).


4. Environment
========================================

Unix boxes may need add lib directory with Sablotron and Expat files
to LD_LIBRARY_PATH.

NT boxes need set the PATH variable to the Sablotron bin/ directory.


5. More info
========================================

We suppose you have read the README file. If you haven't, read it now.
If it is not enough, take a look at our website

http://www.gingerall.com


Enjoy Sablotron!!

GA


